Effects of pilates exercises on functional capacity, flexibility, fatigue, depression and quality of life in female breast cancer patients: a randomized controlled study. There are very few randomized controlled studies on exercise in cancer patients. Consequently, there are no guidelines available with regard to the exercises that can be recommended and difficulties are encountered in the clinical practice as to which exercise is more suitable to the patients. The purpose of this study was to investigate the impact of pilates exercises on physical performance, flexibility, fatigue, depression and quality of life in women who had been treated for breast cancer. Randomized controlled trial. Out patient group, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and Medical Oncology Department, University Hospital. Fifty-two patients with breast cancer were divided into either pilates exercise (group 1) and control group (group 2). Patients in Group 1 performed pilates and home exercises and patients in group 2 performed only home exercises. Pilates exercise sessions were performed three times a week for a period of eight weeks in the rehabilitation unit. Subjects were assessed before and after rehabilitation program, with respect to, 6-min walk test (6MWT), modified sit and reach test, Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), Beck Depression Index (BDI) and the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) and EORTC QLQ BR23. After the exercise program, improvements were observed in Group 1 in 6-minute walk test, BDI, EORTC QLQ-C30 functional, and EORTC QLQ-C30 BR23 functional scores (P<0.05). In contrast, no significant improvement was observed in Group 2 after the exercise program in any of parameters in comparison to the pre-exercise period (P>0.05). When the two exercise groups were compared, there were significant differences in 6MWT in pilates-exercise group (P<0.05). Pilates exercises are effective and safe in female breast cancer patients. There is a need for further studies so that its effect can be confirmed. This study addressed the effects of pilates exercise, as a new approach, on functional capacity, fatigue, depression and quality of life in breast cancer patients in whom there are doubts regarding the efficacy and usefulness of the exercise. 