Efficacy of short-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (STPP) with depressed breast cancer patients: results of a randomized controlled multicenter trial. There is a lack of trials of psychodynamic treatments of depression in breast cancer patients. The purpose of this trial was to determine the efficacy of short-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (STPP) in non-metastatic breast cancer patients diagnosed with depression, one of the most frequent mental comorbidities of breast cancer. In a multicenter prospective trial, 157 breast cancer patients with comorbid depression were randomized to either individual STPP (intervention group, N=78) or 'treatment as usual' (control group, TAU, N=79). As our primary outcome measure, we hypothesized a higher rate of remission defined as no diagnosis of depression (Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV) and reduction in depression score by at least 2 points (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, HADS-D) in STPP versus TAU at treatment termination. Secondary outcomes mainly refer to quality of life (QoL). In the intention to treat (ITT) analysis, 44% of the STPP group achieved highly significantly more remission than TAU (23%). STPP treatment (OR=7.64; P<0.001) was the strongest predictor for remission post-treatment; time was also significant (OR=0.96; P<0.05). A high effect favoring STPP (d=0.82) was observed for the HADS-D score post-treatment (secondary outcome). Regarding further secondary outcomes (QoL), analyses of covariance yielded main effects for group (favoring STPP with an effect size of at least d=0.5) for global QoL, role, emotional and social functioning, pain, treatment side-effects, breast symptoms and upset by hair loss. STPP is an effective treatment of a broad range of depressive conditions in breast cancer patients improving depression and functional QoL. Findings are limited by the drop-out rate (∼1/3) and delayed post-treatment assessments. Future trials may consider stepped-care approaches, tailored to patients' needs and requirements in the acute treatment phase.