A Randomized Trial of Mometasone Furoate 0.1% to Reduce High-Grade Acute Radiation Dermatitis in Breast Cancer Patients Receiving Postmastectomy Radiation. A 2-arm, double-blinded randomized trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of 0.1% mometasone furoate (MF) versus Eucerin Original (E) cream in preventing the development of moderate to severe acute radiation dermatitis (ARD) in breast cancer patients receiving postmastectomy radiation (PMRT). Breast cancer patients undergoing chest wall with or without nodal radiation therapy (RT) (50 Gy) were eligible. Randomization (1:1) was to MF or E, applied twice daily from day 1 of PMRT to 14 days after PMRT. Patients were stratified by RT technique, body mass index, and reconstruction status. Daily bolus of 3 to 10 mm was applied in all patients. The primary endpoint was the development of provider-assessed grade ≥2 (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03) ARD with moist desquamation or any grade ≥3 dermatitis. Secondary endpoints were time to occurrence of maximum-grade dermatitis and patient-reported skin symptoms using a skin-related quality of life questionnaire, Skindex-16. Assessments were performed at baseline, weekly during PMRT, and 2 weeks after PMRT. 124 patients were enrolled between May 2013 and February 2016. Of those, 35% had pathologic stage III disease, 6% had cT4d disease, and 68% underwent reconstruction. Sixty percent received 3-dimensional conformal RT with photons only to the chest wall, 18% received electrons and photons, and 23% received inverse-planned intensity modulated RT. Groups were well balanced for age, skin type, and stage. The rate of moist desquamation was 54.8% in the entire cohort, with a significantly reduced incidence in the MF arm than in the E arm (43.8% vs 66.7%; P = .012). The MF arm had a lower incidence of maximum skin toxicities (P = .036) and longer time to development of grade 3 dermatitis (46 days vs 35.5 days, respectively; P ≤ .001). There was no difference in patient-reported skin outcomes between arms. Breast cancer patients receiving MF during PMRT experienced significantly reduced rates of moist desquamation in comparison with a control cream.  