Promoting bone health management in women diagnosed with breast cancer: a pilot randomized controlled trial. This study investigates, in women diagnosed with breast cancer, the feasibility of evaluating the effects of educational material and its delivery method, on bone health management. The study results suggest educational material may improve rates of bone mineral density testing. Educational materials improve bone mineral density (BMD) testing rates in high-risk patients, but the effect is unknown in women diagnosed with breast cancer. Methods of delivering educational materials may also affect testing rates. The purposes of this study were to determine the feasibility of the protocol and to pilot-test the effects of educational material and its delivery methods on BMD testing rates. Pilot randomized controlled trial with block randomization. Fifty-four women (aged 65-75 and diagnosed with breast cancer ≥ 3 years ago (2010-2012) and not taking osteoporosis medication) were recruited from February to May 2016 and randomized to three groups: control without educational material, educational material delivered by postal mail, and educational material delivered by patient choice of postal mail, email, or text messaging. Outcome measures were primarily evaluated using self-report questionnaires. The participation rate, defined as the proportion of eligible participants who consented to participate, was 39.1%. Primary outcome measure was obtained for 98% of the recruited women. During the 6-month follow-up period, BMD testing rates were significantly higher in the groups receiving educational materials by mail (26%, 95%CI = 10 to 49) and by patient choice (18%, 95%CI = 5 to 41), when compared with the control group (6%, 95%CI = 0.3 to 25). Educational material was associated with a 17% higher BMD testing rate. The study protocol is feasible for a large-scale study. The educational material intervention is broadly accepted by the study participants with a promising positive effect on BMD testing rates. 