Nebivolol effect on doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in breast cancer. The aim of this study was to assess whether nebivolol treatment could have beneficial effects in the prevention of anthracyclines-induced cardiotoxicity. Our prospective study included 60 women, mean age 52.6±13 years, with HER2 negative breast cancer, scheduled to undergo treatment with doxorubicin. The patients were randomly divided into two groups: the treatment group (n=30) which received nebivolol 5 mg once daily for the duration of chemotherapy and the control group (n=30) without treatment with nebivolol. Cytostatic treatment was performed with doxorubicin 70 mg/m2 administered intravenously every 21 days for six cycles. The average cumulative dose of doxorubicin was 520±8 mg/m2. Echocardiography was performed immediately before and after six cycles of doxorubicin therapy. We found no significant differences between the two groups regarding baseline clinical and echocardiographic parameters. The two groups reached a similar cumulative dose of doxorubicin. No patient died during the study. None of the patients withdrew from chemotherapy. After six cycles of doxorubicin therapy, the left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction, shortening fraction, and LV diameters changed, but not significantly. Tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) detected in the control group a significant decrease of myocardial velocities, indicating a LV diastolic dysfunction. In the same group, speckle tracking imaging (STI) revealed a statistically significant alteration of the ventricular deformation, which means a decrease in LV systolic function. In the nebivolol treatment group, no significant alterations in the LV systolic and diastolic function were observed. The results of this study show the benefit of new echocardiographic imaging methods such as TDI and STI in the screening of early cardiac dysfunction induced by cytostatic treatment. Nebivolol treatment prevented the occurrence of anthracyclines-induced cardiomyopathy in the short term. In order to confirm these preliminary results, larger studies with a longer follow-up period are required. 