Fatty acid profiles in erythrocyte membranes following the Mediterranean diet - data from a multicenter lifestyle intervention study in women with hereditary breast cancer (LIBRE). Evidence-based concepts to prevent breast cancer in women with BRCA1/2 mutations are limited. Adherence to a Mediterranean diet (MedD) has been associated with a lower risk for breast cancer, possibly due to a favorable fatty acid (FA) intake. Here, we studied in an at-risk population the effect of a lifestyle intervention that included the MedD on FA composition in red blood cell membranes (RBCM). Data derived from the German multicenter trial LIBRE, from which 68 women were randomized into an intervention group (IG) trained for MedD and increased physical activity for 12 months, and a usual care control group (CG). Adherence to the diet was assessed after 3 and 12 months using the validated Mediterranean Diet Adherence Screener (MEDAS) and a food frequency questionnaire. RBCM FA were analyzed by gas chromatography with mass spectrometry. The MEDAS was increased in both groups after 3 months (IG: P < 0.001; CG: P = 0.004), and remained increased only in the IG after 12 months (P < 0.001). The food frequency questionnaire revealed an increased intake of omega-3 (n-3) FA at month 3 and month 12 in the IG (both P < 0.01), but not in the CG, in which intake of energy, protein and saturated FA decreased. In both groups n-6 FA in the RBCM decreased (P < 0.001), while n-9 FA increased (P < 0.001) and n-3 FA were unchanged. Women with higher consumption of fish had higher amounts of n-3 fatty acids in the RBCM. The MEDAS was inversely correlated with n-6 fatty acids. The RBCM FA composition was associated with dietetic parameters related to the MedD. Adherence to the MedD resulted in an altered, likely favorable FA composition. Our data suggest selected FA as biomarkers to monitor compliance to a dietetic intervention such as the MedD. The trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (reference: NCT02087592).  