Satisfaction with care and adherence to treatment when using patient reported outcomes to individualize follow-up care for women with early breast cancer - a pilot randomized controlled trial. Background: The population of breast cancer survivors is increasing as a positive consequence of early detection and enhanced treatment. The disease and treatment associated side-effects or late-effects often impact on quality of life and daily life functions during survivorship. This calls for optimization of follow-up care. We aimed to evaluate the patients' satisfaction with the care provided, when using electronic patient reported outcomes (ePROs) to individualize follow-up care in women with early breast cancer receiving adjuvant endocrine therapy. Material and methods: Postmenopausal women treated for hormone receptor positive early breast cancer were included in a pilot randomized controlled trial and randomized to receive standard follow-up care with prescheduled consultations every six months or individualized follow-up care with the active use of ePROs to screen for the need of consultations. ePROs were distributed every third month over a two-year period. Primary outcomes were satisfaction with the assigned follow-up care and unmet needs. Secondary outcomes were use of consultations, adherence to treatment and quality of life. Results: Of the 207 consecutive patients who were potentially eligible for the study, 134 women were enrolled (65%). In total 64 women in standard care and 60 women in individualized care were analyzed. No statistically significant differences were reported in relation to satisfaction, unmet needs, adherence to treatment or quality of life. Women in standard care attended twice as many consultations during the two year follow-up period as women in individualized care; 4.3 (95% CI 3.9-4.7) versus 2.1 (95% CI: 1.6-2.6), p < .001. Conclusion: A significant reduction in consultations was observed for the group attending individualized care without compromising the patients' satisfaction, quality of life or adherence to treatment. For the majority of postmenopausal women treated for early breast cancer, implementation of ePROs to individualize follow-up care was feasible.