The effects of poloxamer and sodium alginate mixture (Guardix-SG®) on range of motion after axillary lymph node dissection: A single-center, prospective, randomized, double-blind pilot study. Restricted shoulder mobility is a major upper extremity dysfunction associated with lower quality of life and disability after breast cancer surgery. We hypothesized that a poloxamer and sodium alginate mixture (Guardix-SG®) applied after axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) would significantly improve shoulder range of motion (ROM) in patients with breast cancer. We conducted a double-blind, randomized, prospective study to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of Guardix-SG® for the prevention of upper extremity dysfunction after ALND. The primary outcome measure was shoulder ROM at baseline (T0) and 3 (T1), 6 (T2), and 12 months (T3) after surgery. Secondary outcome measures were the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand score(DASH), pain associated with movement, which was assessed using a numeric rating scale, and lymphedema assessed using body composition analyzer. A total of 83 women with breast cancer were randomly assigned to either the Guardix-SG® group or the control group. In the Guardix-SG® group (n = 37), Guardix-SG® was applied to the axillary region after ALND. In the control group (n = 46), ALND was performed without using Guardix-SG®. Comparing ROM for shoulder flexion before surgery (178.2°) and 12 months after surgery (172.3°), that was restored 12 months after surgery in the Guardix-SG® group, and there was no statistically significant difference between that at before surgery and 12 months after surgery (p = 0.182). No adverse effect was observed in either group. The results of this study have shown that Guardix-SG® help improve shoulder ROM without causing adverse effects in patients who underwent breast cancer surgery. However, there was no statistically significant difference from the control group. A further large-scale study is needed to obtain a more conclusive conclusion. CRISKCT0003386; https://cris.nih.go.kr (20181207). 