Patient-Reported Outcomes Predict Progression-Free Survival of Patients with Advanced Breast Cancer Treated with Abemaciclib. Abemaciclib is a CDK4/6 inhibitor used to treat hormone receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative advanced breast cancer. The prognostic value of patient-reported outcomes (PROs) has been minimally explored for treatment outcomes with CDK4/6 inhibitors. The performance of PROs compared with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG-PS) is unknown. This study pooled data from single-arm trial, MONARCH 1, and randomized trials, MONARCH 2 and 3. In total, 900 patients initiated abemaciclib and 384 comparator therapy. Pretreatment PRO association with progression-free survival (PFS) was modeled using Cox proportional hazards regression. Prediction performance was assessed via the C-statistic (c). PROs were recorded via the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer QLQ-C30. Patient-reported physical function, pain, role function, fatigue, and appetite loss were associated with PFS on univariable and adjusted analysis (p < .05). Physical function (c = 0.55) was most predictive, superior to ECOG-PS (c = 0.54), with multivariable analysis indicating both provide independent information (p < .02). In the pooled randomized arms of MONARCH 2 and 3, the PFS treatment benefit (hazard ratio [95% confidence interval]) of abemaciclib (vs. comparators) was 0.75 (0.57-1.0) for low physical function, compared with 0.48 (0.40-0.59) for intermediate/high (p[interaction] = .01). PROs were identified as prognostic factors for PFS in patients initiating abemaciclib, with patient-reported physical function containing independent predictive information beyond ECOG-PS. Low physical function was associated with a decrease in the magnitude of PFS benefit from abemaciclib. PROs should be explored as prognostic, predictive, and stratification factors for clinical use and research trials of CDK4/6 inhibitors. For the first time, pretreatment patient-reported outcomes have been shown to be independent prognostic markers for progression-free survival (PFS) in patients diagnosed with hormone receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (HR+/HER2-) advanced breast cancer treated with abemaciclib. Importantly, patients with low physical function had a smaller PFS benefit from abemaciclib (vs. comparator) than patients with intermediate/high physical function. The present study demonstrates patient-reported outcomes as a simple, effective, inexpensive, and independent prognostic marker for patients with HR+/HER2- advanced breast cancer treated with abemaciclib.