Randomized placebo-controlled study of recombinant human interleukin-11 to prevent chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia in patients with breast cancer receiving dose-intensive cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin. Thrombocytopenia may compromise cancer treatment, causing chemotherapy dose reductions, schedule alterations, or the need for platelet transfusions. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of recombinant human interleukin-11 (rhIL-11; Neumega, Genetics Institute, Inc, Cambridge, MA), a novel thrombopoietic growth factor, in reducing the need for platelet transfusions in patients who undergo dose-intensive chemotherapy. Women with advanced breast cancer received cyclophosphamide (3,200 mg/m2) and doxorubicin (75 mg/m2) plus granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF; 5 microg/kg/d). Patients were randomized to blinded treatment with placebo or 50 microg/kg/d rhIL-11 subcutaneously for 10 or 17 days after the first two chemotherapy cycles. Seventy-seven patients were randomized and constitute the intent-to-treat (ITT) population. Sixty-seven patients (the assessable subgroup) either completed both cycles without a major protocol violation (n = 62) or received a platelet transfusion before treatment was discontinued after the first cycle. In the ITT population, rhIL-11 significantly decreased the requirement for platelet transfusions; 27 of 40 (68%) patients who received rhIL-11 did not require transfusions, compared with 15 of 37 (41%) in the placebo group (P = .04). Treatment with rhIL-11 significantly reduced the total number of platelet transfusions required in the assessable subgroup (P = .03) and the time to platelet recovery to more than 50,000/microL in the second cycle (P = .01). Most adverse events associated with rhIL-11 were reversible, mild to moderate in severity, and likely related to fluid retention. rhIL-11 is safe and effective in reducing treatment-associated thrombocytopenia and the need for platelet transfusions in patients who undergo dose-intensive chemotherapy, and thus may permit chemotherapy to be administered as planned at intended doses and thereby maximize the potential for a successful outcome. 